Mw solver example V1 (#2011)
chaos-polymtl/lethe: doc/source/examples/multiphysics/waveguide/waveguide.rst

..
    SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2026 The Lethe Authors
    SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 WITH LLVM-exception OR LGPL-2.1-or-later

=========
Waveguide
=========

> This example is used to verify the implementation of the electromagnetic solver. It considers the propagation of an electromagnetic wave in a waveguide, a problem for which an analytical solution is available, thereby allowing us to assess whether the method recovers the expected order of convergence.

Reviewer: Since you use it later
```suggestion
This example is used to verify the implementation of the electromagnetic solver. It considers the propagation of an electromagnetic (EM) wave in a waveguide, a problem for which an analytical solution is available, thereby allowing us to assess whether the method recovers the expected order of convergence.
```

--------
Features
--------

- Solvers: ``lethe-fluid`` or ``lethe-fluid-matrix-free``
- Steady-state problem

> - Use of discontinous Petrov-Galerkin (DPG) method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use of discontinuous Petrov-Galerkin (DPG) method
```

.. Note::

>     Even though we are using ``lethe-fluid``, we have to enable the electromagnetism solver tin the subsection Multiphysics:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To perform simulations involving the electromagnetic capabilities of Lethe, we have to enable the electromagnetic solver in the subsection Multiphysics:
```

> .. code-block:: text

Reviewer 2: I would add a tabulation to this section so it goes inside your `note` to make it more explicit that its related.

    subsection multiphysics
        set fluid dynamics   = false
        set electromagnetics = true
    end

> 

Reviewer: I would move this chunk lower since the parameter file is not mentioned yet. (see comment below)
```suggestion
```

--------------------------
Files Used In This Example
--------------------------

All files mentioned below are located in the example's folder (``examples/multiphysics/waveguide``)

- Base case parameter file (:math:`\mathrm{f=2.45 GHz}` and :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{10}`): ``waveguide.prm``

> - Folders with the results of the simulation for the degree n: ``degree_n``

Reviewer: This is not necessary :)
```suggestion
```

-----------------------
Description of the Case
-----------------------

Geometry
~~~~~~~~

> The simulated waveguide has a square cross section. It is made of four perfectly reflective lateral walls, an inlet port for the wave’s entry, and an outlet for its exit  as shown in the figure below. The wave propagates along the :math:`z`-axis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The simulated waveguide has a square cross section. It is made of four perfectly conductive lateral walls, an inlet port for the wave’s entry, and an outlet for its exit  as shown in the figure below. The wave propagates along the :math:`z`-axis.
```

> The simulated waveguide has a square cross section. It is made of four perfectly reflective lateral walls, an inlet port for the wave’s entry, and an outlet for its exit  as shown in the figure below. The wave propagates along the :math:`z`-axis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simulated waveguide has a square cross section. It is made of four perfectly reflective lateral walls, an inlet port for the wave’s entry, and an outlet for its exit as shown in the figure below. The wave propagates along the :math:`z`-axis.
```

.. image:: images/schematic.png
    :alt: schematic
    :align: center
    :name: geometry
    :width: 500

The dimensions chosen here are a width :math:`a = 0.25 \, \mathrm{m}`,  a height :math:`b = 0.25\, \mathrm{m}` and a length :math:`L = 1\, \mathrm{m}`.

Physical Problem
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. note::

>     Lethe time-harmonic solver always solve the set of equation in a dimensionless form, so that is the convention that will be used in what follows. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Lethe time-harmonic solver always solve the set of equation in a dimensionless form, so that is the convention that will be used in the following mathematical descriptions. 
```

> This simulation computes the stationary electromagnetic field in the above waveguide with perfectly conducting metal wall and filled with void. Recall that the time-harmonic maxwell equation in their dimensionless form used in this test case are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This simulation computes the stationary electromagnetic field in the above waveguide filled with void. Recall that the time-harmonic maxwell equation in their dimensionless form used in this test case are:
```

> This simulation computes the stationary electromagnetic field in the above waveguide with perfectly conducting metal wall and filled with void. Recall that the time-harmonic maxwell equation in their dimensionless form used in this test case are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This simulation computes the stationary electromagnetic field in the above waveguide with perfectly conducting metal wall and filled with void. We recall that the time-harmonic Maxwell equations in their dimensionless form, as used in this example, are:
```

.. math::
    \begin{align*}

>     \tag{Farady's law} \nabla \times \mathbf{E} - i\omega \mu_{\mathrm{r}}\mathbf{H} &= 0 \\

Reviewer: I might be wrong, since it is far from my domain, but I think it's:
```suggestion
    \tag{Faraday's law} \nabla \times \mathbf{E} - i\omega \mu_{\mathrm{r}}\mathbf{H} &= 0 \\
```

    \tag{Ampère-Maxwell's law} \nabla \times \mathbf{H} + i \omega \varepsilon_{\mathrm{r,eff}} \mathbf{E} &= \mathbf{J} 
    \end{align*}

> With the parameters of the problem:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the parameters of the problem:
```

> - Dielectric caracteristics of the medium : :math:`\mu_{\mathrm{r}}` the relative permeability and :math:`\varepsilon_{\mathrm{r,eff}}` the effective relative permittivity. This caracteristic is "effective" because it takes into account the electric conductivity.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Dielectric caracteristics of the medium : :math:`\mu_{\mathrm{r}}` the relative permeability and :math:`\varepsilon_{\mathrm{r,eff}}` the effective relative permittivity. This caracteristic is "effective" because it takes into account the electric conductivity :math:`\varepsilon_{\mathrm{r,eff}} = \varepsilon_r + i\frac{\sigma}{\omega \varepsilon_0} `.   
```

> - Dielectric caracteristics of the medium : :math:`\mu_{\mathrm{r}}` the relative permeability and :math:`\varepsilon_{\mathrm{r,eff}}` the effective relative permittivity. This caracteristic is "effective" because it takes into account the electric conductivity.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Dielectric characteristics of the medium: :math:`\mu_{\mathrm{r}}` the relative permeability and :math:`\varepsilon_{\mathrm{r,eff}}` the effective relative permittivity. This characteristic is noted "effective" because it takes into account the electric conductivity.   
```

> - Excitation : :math:`\mathbf{J}` the current density and :math:`\omega = \frac{L2\pi f}{c}` the angular frequency of the electromagnetic wave.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Excitation : :math:`\mathbf{J}` the current density and :math:`\omega = \frac{L2\pi f}{c}` the angular frequency of the electromagnetic wave normalized by the speed of light in the void :math:`c` .
```

> - Excitation : :math:`\mathbf{J}` the current density and :math:`\omega = \frac{L2\pi f}{c}` the angular frequency of the electromagnetic wave.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Excitation: :math:`\mathbf{J}` the current density and :math:`\omega = \frac{L2\pi f}{c}` the angular frequency of the electromagnetic wave.
```

> - Speed of light in void: :math:`c`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> There are 12 unknowns. In fact, one for each of the dimensionless :math:`\mathbf{E}` and :math:`\mathbf{H}` fields, we compute the real and imaginary parts in each of the three spatial directions. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When solving a time-harmonic electromagnetic problem with Lethe, there are 12 unknowns, one for each component of the dimensionless :math:`\mathbf{E}` and :math:`\mathbf{H}` fields times two for the real and imaginary parts in each of the three spatial directions. 
```

> There are 12 unknowns. In fact, one for each of the dimensionless :math:`\mathbf{E}` and :math:`\mathbf{H}` fields, we compute the real and imaginary parts in each of the three spatial directions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When solving these equations, this amounts to 12 unknowns: for each of the dimensionless :math:`\mathbf{E}` and :math:`\mathbf{H}` fields, we compute the real and imaginary parts in each of the three spatial directions (:math:`2\times 3\times 2 = 12`). 
```

> Therefore we introduce the dimensionless wavenumbers used to describe the EM waves:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, to describe an electromagnetic wave problem, it is useful to  introduce the following dimensionless wavenumbers to ease notation in the following parts of this example :
```

> - Wave numbers corresponding to a standing wave caused by the walls: :math:`k_\mathrm{x} = \frac{Lm\pi}{a} \ , \ k_\mathrm{y} = \frac{Ln\pi}{b}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Wavenumbers corresponding to a standing wave caused by the walls: :math:`k_\mathrm{x} = \frac{Lm\pi}{a} \ , \ k_\mathrm{y} = \frac{Ln\pi}{b}`
```

> - Norm of the vector :math:`(k_\mathrm{x},k_\mathrm{y})`: :math:`k_\mathrm{c}^2 = (k_\mathrm{x}^2 + k_\mathrm{y}^2)`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Wavenumber in the transverse direction of propagation: :math:`k_\mathrm{c} = \sqrt{k_\mathrm{x}^2 + k_\mathrm{y}^2}`
```

> - Total wave number: :math:`k^2 = \omega \mu_{\mathrm{r}} \varepsilon_{\mathrm{eff,r}} = \sqrt{k_\mathrm{x}^2 +k_\mathrm{y}^2 + k_\mathrm{z}^2}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Total wavenumber: :math:`k = \omega \sqrt{\mu_{\mathrm{r}} \varepsilon_{\mathrm{eff,r}}} = \sqrt{k_\mathrm{x}^2 +k_\mathrm{y}^2 + k_\mathrm{z}^2}`
```

> - Wave number corresponding to a wave propagating along the z-axis: :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = \sqrt{\omega^2 \varepsilon_\mathrm{eff,r}\mu_\mathrm{r} - k_\mathrm{c}^2}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Wavenumber in the propagation direction, here along the z-axis: :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = \sqrt{\omega^2 \varepsilon_\mathrm{eff,r}\mu_\mathrm{r} - k_\mathrm{c}^2}`
```

.. note::
    Note that if :math:`k \leq k_\mathrm{c}`, the wave does not propagate because :math:`k_\mathrm{z}^2 \leq 0`. This remark is important for the following part on the frequency and the different modes.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In Lethe, the ``electromagnetics`` solver is enabled within the ``multiphysics`` subsection of the parameter file. We also disable the ``fluid dynamics`` solver there since it is enabled by default.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection multiphysics
        set fluid dynamics   = false
        set electromagnetics = true
    end

```

The Different Transverse Modes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` mode refers to "Transverse electric mode". This means that regardless of the values of :math:`m` and :math:`n`, the :math:`z`-component of :math:`\mathbf{E}` is always zero. Therefore, the pair :math:`(m,n)` refers to the :math:`x`-component of the electric field being excited in the :math:`m`-th mode and the :math:`y`-component of the electric field being excited on the :math:`n`-th mode. 

> The :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` mode can be modified at lines 97 and 98, the default settings are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` or :math:`\mathrm{TM}_{mn}` modes can be specified in the subsection `waveguide mode` of the parameter file. Here we used the following :
```

Reviewer: With this I would specify TM means "transverse magnetic" since it is its first appearance.

> 

Reviewer 2: I would add the full section `time harmonic maxwell` parameter section here not just the mode and merge the frequency description below since everything is linked in the .prm and the caution/warning of the two subsection are kind of redundant.

Reviewer 2: This is not resolve yet, the code-block has not been adjusted and the parameter in it have also not been described consequently. Add the full block that you used, i.e. something like : 
```
subsection time harmonic maxwell
  set electromagnetic frequency    = 2.45e9
  set number of waveguide inlets   = 1
  set electromagnetic scaling type = power

  subsection time coupling strategy
    set type = none
  end

  subsection waveguide inlet 0
    set port boundary id = 0

    set waveguide power = 1000

    set corner 0 = 0,0,0
    set corner 1 = 0.,10.92,0
    set corner 2 = 0., 0., 5.46
    set corner 3 = 0., 10.92, 5.46

    subsection waveguide mode
      set mode type    = TE
      set mode order m = 1
      set mode order n = 0
    end
  end
end
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection waveguide mode
      set mode type    = TE
      set mode order m = 1
      set mode order n = 0
    end

> You can also switch to transverse magnetic mode by replacing “TE” with “TM”.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To apply a transverse magnetic mode, simply modify the `mode type` with “TM”.
```

.. caution::

>     If :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` is changed, :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = \sqrt{\omega^2 \varepsilon_{eff}\mu - k_\mathrm{x}^2 - k_\mathrm{y}^2 }`  at line 163, the dimensionless admittance real part :math:`\Re (G)=\frac{1}{Z_s}=\frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}}` at line 147 must be changed because it depends on :math:`(m,n)` through :math:`k_\mathrm{x} = \frac{m \pi}{a}` and :math:`k_\mathrm{y} = \frac{n \pi}{b}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` is changed while the frequency remains the same, the wavenumber in the propagation direction :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = \sqrt{\omega^2 \varepsilon_{eff}\mu - k_\mathrm{x}^2 - k_\mathrm{y}^2 }` will change because it depends on :math:`(m,n)` through :math:`k_\mathrm{x} = \frac{m \pi}{a}` and :math:`k_\mathrm{y} = \frac{n \pi}{b}`. Make sure to adapt the dimensionless admittance in the boundary condition :math:`Y_\mathrm{s}=\frac{1}{Z_\mathrm{s}}=\frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}}` and the analytical solution if you want to perform a convergence analysis accordingly.
```

.. warning:: 

>     If you want to try high modes, you have to adapt the frequency in order for :math:`k_z` to keep a real value. Indeed, the number :math:`k_z^2 = \omega^2 \epsilon_{\mathrm{eff,r}}\mu_\mathrm{r} - k_x^2 - k_y^2` can be negative.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you want to try high modes, you have to adapt the frequency in order for :math:`k_z` to keep a real value. Indeed, the number :math:`k_z^2 = \omega^2 \epsilon_{\mathrm{eff,r}}\mu_\mathrm{r} - k_x^2 - k_y^2` cannot be negative.
```

> Here are Paraview visuals of different modes. In order to maximise the resolution, we calculated the parameters with :math:`\lambda = L = 1\, \mathrm{m}`, which is equivalent to fix the dimensionless parameter :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = 2\pi`. This represents only one spatial period of the wave. Results of :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{10}`, :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{01}` and :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{21}` are presented below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are Paraview visuals of different modes. In order to maximise the resolution, we calculated the parameters with :math:`\lambda = L = 1\, \mathrm{m}`, which is equivalent to fix the dimensionless parameter :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = 2\pi`. This represents only one spatial period of the wave. Results of :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{21}`, :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{01}` and :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{10}` are presented below:
```

> Here are Paraview visuals of different modes. In order to maximise the resolution, we calculated the parameters with :math:`\lambda = L = 1\, \mathrm{m}`, which is equivalent to fix the dimensionless parameter :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = 2\pi`. This represents only one spatial period of the wave. Results of :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{10}`, :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{01}` and :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{21}` are presented below:

Reviewer: Mention the order they appear in the figure please 
Here, I assumed an order, but feel free to adjust. :)
```suggestion
Here are Paraview visuals of different modes. In order to maximise the resolution, we calculated the parameters with :math:`\lambda = L = 1\, \mathrm{m}`, which is equivalent to fix the dimensionless parameter :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = 2\pi`. This represents only one spatial period of the wave. Results of :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{10}`, :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{01}` and :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{21}` (respectively, from left to right) are presented below:
```

.. image:: images/TE_modes.png
    :alt: TE10
    :align: center
    :name: TE10
    :width: 500

Boundary Conditions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> .. Note::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Attention::
```

>     Although we are not using the fluid solver, note that we cannot remove the ``subsection boundary conditions`` on line 107 otherwise the simulation fails to execute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Although we are not using the fluid solver, note that we cannot remove the ``subsection boundary conditions`` for the fluid boundaries in the parameter file otherwise the simulation fails to execute.
```

> There are three types of boundary conditions in this problem, this explains why the surfaces of the waveguide are sorted in three groups. There is first the inlet :math:`\Gamma_1`, the outlet :math:`\Gamma_2` and finally the metal walls :math:`\Gamma_3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three types of boundary conditions in this problem, this explains why the surfaces of the waveguide are sorted in three groups. First, there is the inlet :math:`\Gamma_1`, then the outlet :math:`\Gamma_2` and finally the metal walls :math:`\Gamma_3`.
```

> - Inlet :math:`\Gamma_1`: waveguide port boundary condition at the inlet of the waveguide to excite the :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` mode at :math:`z` = 0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Inlet :math:`\Gamma_1`: ``waveguide port`` boundary condition at the inlet of the waveguide to excite the :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` mode at :math:`z` = 0
```

> - Outlet :math:`\Gamma_2`: impedance matching boundary condition to minimize the reflections (the waveguide is theoretically infinite). The dimensionless admittance in such conditions is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Outlet :math:`\Gamma_2`: ``impedance boundary`` condition tuned to the waveguide impedance to minimize the reflections (the waveguide is theoretically infinite). The dimensionless admittance in such conditions is:
```

  .. math::

>     \frac{1}{Z_s}=\frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}}

Reviewer: With Oreste's comment above
```suggestion
  .. math::
    Y_\mathrm{s} = \frac{1}{Z_\mathrm{s}}=\frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}} = \frac{k_\mathrm{z} c}{2\pi f \mathrm{L} \mu_\mathrm{r}} \approx 0.968987646

  .. caution::
    Changes in mode will affect this value as mentioned before.
```

> - Metal walls :math:`\Gamma_3`: perfect electric conductor (PEC) boundary conditions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Metal walls :math:`\Gamma_3`: ``pec`` (perfect electric conductor) boundary conditions
```

These translate into the three following equations:

.. math::
    \begin{align*}
    \tag{on $\Gamma_1$} \nabla \times \mathbf{H} + \frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}} \mathbf{n} \times (\mathbf{E} \times \mathbf{n}) &=  \nabla \times \mathbf{H}_{\mathrm{TE}_{mn}} + \frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}} \mathbf{n} \times (\mathbf{E}_{\mathrm{TE}_{mn}} \times \mathbf{n})\\
    \tag{on $\Gamma_2$}\nabla \times \mathbf{H} + \frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}} \mathbf{n} \times (\mathbf{E} \times \mathbf{n}) &= 0 \\
    \tag{on $\Gamma_3$}\mathbf{n} \times \mathbf{E} &= 0
    \end{align*}

    

> Here are the lines concerning the boundary conditions in the parameter file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These boundary conditions are specified within the ``boundary conditions time harmonic maxwell`` subsection of the parameter file:
```

            end
            subsection excitation y real part
                set Function expression = 0
            end
            subsection excitation y imag part
                set Function expression = 0
            end
            subsection excitation z real part
                set Function expression = 0
            end
            subsection excitation z imag part
                set Function expression = 0
            end
            subsection surface admittance real part
                set Function expression = 0.968987646
            end
            subsection surface admittance imag part
                set Function expression = 0.
            end
        end
    end

Here is how each boundary condition is programmed in this file:

- Inlet: ``set type = waveguide port``
- Outlet: The dimensionless admittance :math:`\frac{1}{Z_\mathrm{s}} = \frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}} = \frac{k_\mathrm{z} c}{2\pi f \mathrm{L} \mu_\mathrm{r}}` has to be calculated by the user before launching the simulation. Then, it is programmed here:

.. code-block:: text

    subsection surface admittance real part
        set Function expression = 0.968987646    
    

> - Perfect reflective walls: ``set type = pec``

Reviewer: With the modifications suggested above by Oreste, I think this becomes redundant.
```suggestion
```

> Dimensionless analytical solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dimensionless Analytical Solution
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The solution for a :math:`\mathrm{TE_mn}` mode, which will be used to assess convergence for this test case, is given by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The solution for a :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` mode, which will be used to assess convergence for this test case, is given by:
```

.. math::
    \mathbf{E} = i\frac{\omega\mu_r}{k_c^2} \begin{bmatrix}
    -k_\mathrm{y} \cos(k_\mathrm{x} x) \sin(k_\mathrm{y} y) \\
    k_\mathrm{x} \sin(k_\mathrm{x} x) \cos(k_\mathrm{y} y) \\
    0
    \end{bmatrix} e^{ik_\mathrm{z} z}

.. math::
    \mathbf{H} =  \begin{bmatrix}
    -i\frac{k_\mathrm{z} k_\mathrm{x}}{k_c^2} \sin(k_\mathrm{x} x) \cos(k_\mathrm{y} y) \\
    -i\frac{k_\mathrm{z} k_\mathrm{y}}{k_c^2} \cos(k_\mathrm{x} x) \sin(k_\mathrm{y} y) \\
    \cos(k_\mathrm{x} x)\cos(k_\mathrm{y} y)
    \end{bmatrix} e^{ik_\mathrm{z} z}
    

> 

Reviewer 2: Add the subsection for the analytical solution of the parameter file here so we can see how to use it.

Mesh Adaptation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> We specify, in the subsection ``mesh adaptation``, the ``type``` to be ``uniform``:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we want to perform a convergence analysis. Therefore, the mesh needs to be successively refined uniformly across the domain. This is achieved with the subsection ``mesh adaptation``, by setting the ``type`` to be ``uniform``:
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection mesh adaptation
      set type = uniform
    end

> The first parameter we can change is the the number ``n`` of mesh adaptations in the subsection ``simulation control``:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and by changing the number ``n`` of mesh adaptations in the subsection ``simulation control``:
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection simulation control
        set method            = steady
        set output frequency  = 1
        set output path       = ./degree_1/
        set number mesh adapt = n
    end

.. Note:: 

>     A typical lab PC (12 cores, 64 Go RAM) can compute up to 3 mesh adaptations. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    A typical computer with 12 cores and 64 Gb of RAM can compute up to 3 mesh adaptations, after that the systems becomes too heavy in memory. 
```

> The solution is specified in the ``analytical solution`` subsection of the parameter file: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The solution used for the calculation of the convergence rates is specified in the ``analytical solution`` subsection of the parameter file: 
```

Frequency of the Electromagnetic Wave
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The frequency of the inlet is originally set to :math:`f = \mathrm{2.45}\, \mathrm{GHz}` because it the nominal frequency of microwaves (MW) in the industry. This value can still be modified at line 84 : ``set electromagnetic frequency  = 2.45e9``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The frequency of the inlet is originally set to :math:`f = \mathrm{2.45}\, \mathrm{GHz}` because it is the nominal frequency of microwave reactors in the industry. This value can be modified in the parameter file in the subsection ``time harmonic maxwell``: ``set electromagnetic frequency  = 2.45e9``
```

.. caution::

>     If the frequency is changed, :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = \sqrt{\omega^2 \varepsilon_\mathrm{eff,r}\mu_\mathrm{r} - k_\mathrm{x}^2 - k_\mathrm{y}^2}` at line 163, the dimensionless admittance real part :math:`\Re (G) =\frac{1}{Z_s}=\frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}}` at line 147 need to be changed since it depends on :math:`f` through :math:`\omega = \frac{2\pi Lf}{c}`.

Reviewer: `\Re (G)` or `Y_s` for the admittance? I

```suggestion
    If the frequency is changed, :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = \sqrt{\omega^2 \varepsilon_\mathrm{eff,r}\mu_\mathrm{r} - k_\mathrm{x}^2 - k_\mathrm{y}^2}` at line 163, the dimensionless admittance real part :math:`Y_\mathrm{s} =\frac{1}{Z_\mathrm{s}}=\frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}}` need to be changed since it depends on :math:`f` through :math:`\omega = \frac{2\pi Lf}{c}`.
```

>     The parameters defined here are only used to calculate the error, they are not taken into account in the simulation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The parameters defined here are only used to calculate the error, they do not affect the simulation.
```

.. warning::
    The simulation may not run for low frequencies. Indeed, if :math:`k_\mathrm{z}^2 = \omega^2 \varepsilon_\mathrm{eff,r}\mu_\mathrm{r} - k_\mathrm{x}^2 - k_\mathrm{y}^2` becomes negative, the mathematical solution still exists as evanescent waves, but it does not represent a physical system.

Degree of the FEM Solver
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can also change the degree of the polynomes used in the Finite Element Method on lines 39 and 40: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also change the degree of the polynomes used in the Finite Element Method in subsection `FEM`: 
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection FEM

>         set electromagnetics trial order = 1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        set electromagnetics trial degree = 1
```

>         set electromagnetics test order  = 2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        set electromagnetics test degree  = 2
```

    end

.. caution::

>     If you change the trial degree, you have to change the test degree on in order to have :math:`test \, degree = trial \, degree + 1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The time-harmonic Maxwell solver requires the degree of the test space to always be greater than the degree of the trial space. Consequently, if the trial space degree is changed, the test degree also needs to be adjusted. 
```

> Note that a folder is automatically created when the simulation is run. If you try a new order :math:`m`, you cam change the mame of the path on line 22: ``set output path       = ./degree_m/``

Reviewer 2: Put this explanation in the section with the `simulation control` subsection where you show the `output path`.

> Note that a folder is automatically created when the simulation is run. If you try a new order :math:`m`, you cam change the mame of the path on line 22: ``set output path       = ./degree_m/``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that a folder is automatically created when the simulation is run. If you try a new order :math:`m`, you can change the name of the path in the ``simulation control`` subsection: ``set output path = ./degree_m/``
```

Physical Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can also change the ``physical properties`` of the medium at the subsection (line 43). These are the default settings for air or void:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also change the electromagnetic properties of the medium at the subsection ``physical properties``. These are the default settings for void:
```

> You can also change the ``physical properties`` of the medium at the subsection (line 43). These are the default settings for air or void:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also change the ``physical properties`` of the medium at the subsection (line 43). Here are the default settings for air or void:
```

> You can also change the electromagnetic properties of the medium at the subsection ``phytsical properties``. Here are the default settings for air or void:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also change the electromagnetic properties of the medium at the subsection ``physical properties``. Here are the default settings for the void:
```

.. code-block:: text
    
    subsection physical properties
        set number of fluids = 1
        subsection fluid 0
            set electric conductivity model = constant
            et electric conductivity       = 0.

            set electric permittivity model     = constant
            set electric permittivity real part = 1.
            set electric permittivity imag part = 0.

            set magnetic permeability model     = constant
            set magnetic permeability real part = 1.
            set magnetic permeability imag part = 0.
        end
    end

.. Note::
    Adding an imaginary part to the permeability and the permittivity makes the medium dissipative. 
    

>     Here is a comparison of the result in a non-dissipative medium (air) and a disspative one with :math:`\Im(\mu_\mathrm{r})=0.06 \ , \ \Im(\varepsilon_\mathrm{eff,r})=0.06`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Here is a comparison of the result in a non-dissipative medium and a dissipative one with :math:`\Im(\mu_\mathrm{r})=0.06 \ , \ \Im(\varepsilon_\mathrm{eff,r})=0.06`:
```

>     Here is a comparison of the result in a non-dissipative medium (air) and a disspative one with :math:`\Im(\mu_\mathrm{r})=0.06 \ , \ \Im(\varepsilon_\mathrm{eff,r})=0.06`:

Reviewer: The order can be changed to match the figure.
```suggestion
    Here is a comparison of the result in a dissipative medium (left)  with :math:`\Im(\mu_\mathrm{r})=0.06 \ , \ \Im(\varepsilon_\mathrm{eff,r})=0.06` and a non-dissipative one (right):
```

> 
> .. image:: images/Dissipation.png
>     :alt: TE10V2
>     :align: center
>     :name: TE10V2
>     :width: 500

Reviewer: Indentation must be fixed so that the image is in the "note" box:

```suggestion

    .. image:: images/Dissipation.png
        :alt: TE10V2
        :align: center
        :name: TE10V2
        :width: 500
```

----------------------

> Running the simulation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running the Simulation
```

----------------------

Call ``lethe-fluid`` by invoking:

.. code-block:: text

    mpirun -np 10 lethe-fluid waveguide.prm

to run the simulation using ten CPU cores.

.. warning:: 
    Make sure to compile lethe in `Release` mode and 
    run in parallel using mpirun. With three mesh adaptations, this simulation takes
    :math:`\sim \,6` minutes on :math:`10` processes. 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. tip::

   Alternatively, the application ``lethe-fluid-matrix-free`` can be used to run the simulation. This may result in a slight gain in compute time. For three mesh adaptation, it takes :math:`\sim \, 4` minutes on :math:`10` processes.

```

----------------------
Results and Discussion
----------------------

> The following figure shows the :math:`\Re(\mathbf{H}_\mathrm{z})` field of 4 increasing mesh adaptations with he default settings. As expected, with decreasing element size we see better results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following figure shows the :math:`\Re(\mathbf{H}_\mathrm{z})` field of 4 increasing mesh adaptations with the default settings of the waveguid.prm file. As expected, with decreasing element size, we capture more and more the oscillating behavior of the solution.
```

.. image:: images/Mesh_adaptation.png
    :alt: standing-wave-mesh
    :align: center
    :name: standing-wave-mesh
    :width: 500

Here is the error of the default setting simulation in function of the element size (:math:`h`) and the polynomial degree (:math:`p`):

.. image:: images/model_validation.png
    :alt: final graph
    :align: center

> As expected, the error is :math:`\mathcal{O}(h^{p+1})` in the :math:`\|L^2\|`  norm for the interior trial space, which validate the implementation of the solver. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As expected, the error is :math:`\mathcal{O}(h^{p+1})` in the :math:`\|L^2\|` norm for the interior trial space, which verifies the implementation of the solver. 
```

>    Alternatively, the application ``lethe-fluid-matrix-free`` can be used to run the simulation (``mpirun -np 10 lethe-fluid-matrix-free waveguide.prm``). For three mesh adaptation, it takes :math:`\sim \, 4` minutes on :math:`10` processes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Alternatively, the application ``lethe-fluid-matrix-free`` can be used to run the simulation (``mpirun -np 10 lethe-fluid-matrix-free waveguide.prm``). For three mesh adaptation, it takes :math:`\sim \, 4` minutes on :math:`10` processes. Note that the solver matrix-free is only related to the fluid dynamics, so from the electromagnetic point of view, this does not change anything.
```

>    Alternatively, the application ``lethe-fluid-matrix-free`` can be used to run the simulation (``mpirun -np 10 lethe-fluid-matrix-free waveguide.prm``). For three mesh adaptation, it takes :math:`\sim \, 4` minutes on :math:`10` processes.

Reviewer 2: Weird that it takes less time using the matrix-free solver? You timed it Pierre?

Reviewer 3: It could since the matrix is not assembled right. Did you folks disable fluid mechanics ?

Reviewer 2: Well fluid dynamics is set to false

Author: Yes I timed it. Should I do it again or is it normal ?

Reviewer 2: Pierre did further tests and, as expected, there is no difference between `lethe-fluid` and `lethe-fluid-matric-free` since we don't solve NS in the example.

..
    SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2026 The Lethe Authors
    SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 WITH LLVM-exception OR LGPL-2.1-or-later

=========
Waveguide
=========

This example is used to verify the implementation of the electromagnetic solver. It considers the propagation of an electromagnetic (EM) wave in a waveguide, a problem for which an analytical solution is available, thereby allowing us to assess whether the method recovers the expected order of convergence.

--------
Features
--------

- Solvers: ``lethe-fluid`` or ``lethe-fluid-matrix-free``
- Steady-state problem
- Use of discontinuous Petrov-Galerkin (DPG) method

--------------------------
Files Used In This Example
--------------------------

> All files mentioned below are located in the example's folder (``examples/multiphysics/waveguide``)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file mentioned below is located in the example's folder (``examples/multiphysics/waveguide``).
```

- Base case parameter file (:math:`\mathrm{f=2.45 GHz}` and :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{10}`): ``waveguide.prm``

-----------------------
Description of the Case
-----------------------

Geometry
~~~~~~~~

The simulated waveguide has a square cross section. It is made of four perfectly conductive lateral walls, an inlet port for the wave’s entry, and an outlet for its exit as shown in the figure below. The wave propagates along the :math:`z`-axis.

.. image:: images/schematic.png
    :alt: schematic
    :align: center
    :name: geometry
    :width: 500

The dimensions chosen here are a width :math:`a = 0.25 \, \mathrm{m}`,  a height :math:`b = 0.25\, \mathrm{m}` and a length :math:`L = 1\, \mathrm{m}`.

Physical Problem
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. note::

>     Lethe time-harmonic solver always solve the set of equation in a dimensionless form, so that is the convention that will be used in the following mathematical descriptions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Lethe time-harmonic solver always solve the set of equations in a dimensionless form; therefore, the same convention will be used in the following mathematical descriptions. 
```

This simulation computes the stationary electromagnetic field in the above waveguide filled with void. We recall that the time-harmonic Maxwell equations in their dimensionless form, as used in this example, are:

.. math::
    \begin{align*}
    \tag{Faraday's law} \nabla \times \mathbf{E} - i\omega \mu_{\mathrm{r}}\mathbf{H} &= 0 \\
    \tag{Ampère-Maxwell's law} \nabla \times \mathbf{H} + i \omega \varepsilon_{\mathrm{r,eff}} \mathbf{E} &= \mathbf{J} 
    \end{align*}

with the parameters of the problem:

- Dielectric characteristics of the medium : :math:`\mu_{\mathrm{r}}` the relative permeability and :math:`\varepsilon_{\mathrm{r,eff}}` the effective relative permittivity. This characteristic is noted "effective" because it takes into account the electric conductivity.   
- Excitation: :math:`\mathbf{J}` the current density and :math:`\omega = \frac{L2\pi f}{c}` the angular frequency of the electromagnetic wave normalized by the speed of light in the void :math:`c` .

> When solving a time-harmonic electromagnetic problem with Lethe, there are 12 unknowns, one for each component of the dimensionless :math:`\mathbf{E}` and :math:`\mathbf{H}` fields times two for the real and imaginary parts in each of the three spatial directions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When solving a time-harmonic electromagnetic problem with Lethe, there are 12 unknowns: two for each component of the dimensionless :math:`\mathbf{E}` and :math:`\mathbf{H}` fields (the real and imaginary parts in each of the three spatial directions). 
```

> In addition, to describe an electromagnetic wave problem, it is useful to  introduce the following dimensionless wavenumbers to ease notation in the following parts of this example :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, to describe an electromagnetic wave problem, it is useful to introduce the following dimensionless wavenumbers to ease notation in the following parts of this example:
```

- Wavenumbers corresponding to a standing wave caused by the walls: :math:`k_\mathrm{x} = \frac{Lm\pi}{a} \ , \ k_\mathrm{y} = \frac{Ln\pi}{b}`
- Wavenumber in the transverse direction of propagation: :math:`k_\mathrm{c} = \sqrt{k_\mathrm{x}^2 + k_\mathrm{y}^2}`
- Total wavenumber: :math:`k = \omega \sqrt{\mu_{\mathrm{r}} \varepsilon_{\mathrm{eff,r}}} = \sqrt{k_\mathrm{x}^2 +k_\mathrm{y}^2 + k_\mathrm{z}^2}`

> - Wavenumber corresponding to a wave propagating along the z-axis: :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = \sqrt{\omega^2 \varepsilon_\mathrm{eff,r}\mu_\mathrm{r} - k_\mathrm{c}^2}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wavenumber corresponding to a wave propagating along the :math:`z`-axis: :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = \sqrt{\omega^2 \varepsilon_\mathrm{eff,r}\mu_\mathrm{r} - k_\mathrm{c}^2}`
```

In Lethe, the ``electromagnetics`` solver is enabled within the ``multiphysics`` subsection of the parameter file. We also disable the ``fluid dynamics`` solver there since it is enabled by default.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection multiphysics
        set fluid dynamics   = false
        set electromagnetics = true
    end

The Different Transverse Modes And The Frequency Modification
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` mode refers to "Transverse electric mode". This means that regardless of the values of :math:`m` and :math:`n`, the :math:`z`-component of :math:`\mathbf{E}` is always zero. Therefore, the pair :math:`(m,n)` refers to the :math:`x`-component of the electric field being excited in the :math:`m`-th mode and the :math:`y`-component of the electric field being excited on the :math:`n`-th mode. 

The :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` modes can be specified in the subsection `waveguide mode` of the parameter file. Here we used the following :

.. code-block:: text

    subsection waveguide mode
      set mode type    = TE
      set mode order m = 1
      set mode order n = 0
    end

> To apply a transverse magnetic mode, simply modify the `mode type` with “TM”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To apply a transverse magnetic mode, simply modify the ``mode type`` with “TM”.
```

> The frequency of the inlet is originally set to :math:`f = \mathrm{2.45}\, \mathrm{GHz}` because it is the nominal frequency of microwave reactors in the industry. This value can be modified in the parameter file in the subsection ``time harmonic maxwell``: ``set electromagnetic frequency  = 2.45e9``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The frequency of the inlet is originally set to :math:`f = \mathrm{2.45}\, \mathrm{GHz}` because it is the nominal frequency of microwave reactors in the industry. This value can be modified in the parameter file in the subsection ``time harmonic maxwell``: ``set electromagnetic frequency = 2.45e9``
```

.. caution::

>     If :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` or the frequency is changed, the wavenumber :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = \sqrt{\omega^2 \varepsilon_{\mathrm{eff,r}}\mu_\mathrm{r} - k_\mathrm{x}^2 - k_\mathrm{y}^2 }`  at line 163, the dimensionless admittance real part :math:`Y_\mathrm{s}=\frac{1}{Z_\mathrm{s}}=\frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}}` at line 147 must be changed because it depends on :math:`(m,n)` and :math:`f` through :math:`k_\mathrm{x} = \frac{m \pi}{a}`, :math:`k_\mathrm{y} = \frac{n \pi}{b}` and :math:`\omega`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` or :math:`f` is changed, the wavenumber :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = \sqrt{\omega^2 \varepsilon_{\mathrm{eff,r}}\mu_\mathrm{r} - k_\mathrm{x}^2 - k_\mathrm{y}^2 }`  specified in the subsection ``analytical solution``, the dimensionless admittance real part :math:`Y_\mathrm{s}=\frac{1}{Z_\mathrm{s}}=\frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}}` specified within the subsection ``surface admittance real part`` must be changed because it depends on :math:`(m,n)` and :math:`f` through :math:`k_\mathrm{x} = \frac{m \pi}{a}`, :math:`k_\mathrm{y} = \frac{n \pi}{b}` and :math:`\omega`.
```

Here are Paraview visuals of different modes. In order to maximise the resolution, we calculated the parameters with :math:`\lambda = L = 1\, \mathrm{m}`, which is equivalent to fix the dimensionless parameter :math:`k_\mathrm{z} = 2\pi`. This represents only one spatial period of the wave. Results of :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{32}`, :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{01}` and :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{10}` (respectively, from left to right) are presented below:

.. image:: images/TE_modes.png
    :alt: TE10
    :align: center
    :name: TE10
    :width: 500

Boundary Conditions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. Attention::
    Although we are not using the fluid solver, note that we cannot remove the ``subsection boundary conditions`` for the fluid boundaries in the parameter file otherwise the simulation fails to execute.

There are three types of boundary conditions in this problem, this explains why the surfaces of the waveguide are sorted in three groups. First, there is the inlet :math:`\Gamma_1`, then the outlet :math:`\Gamma_2` and finally the metal walls :math:`\Gamma_3`.

> - Inlet :math:`\Gamma_1`: waveguide port boundary condition at the inlet of the waveguide to excite the :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` mode at :math:`z` = 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Inlet :math:`\Gamma_1`: ``waveguide port`` boundary condition at the inlet of the waveguide to excite the :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` mode at :math:`z` = 0
```

                set Function expression = 0
            end
            subsection excitation z imag part
                set Function expression = 0
            end
            subsection surface admittance real part
                set Function expression = 0.968987646
            end
            subsection surface admittance imag part
                set Function expression = 0.
            end
        end
    end

Dimensionless Analytical Solution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The solution for a :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` mode, which will be used to assess convergence for this test case, is given by:

.. math::
    \mathbf{E} = i\frac{\omega\mu_r}{k_c^2} \begin{bmatrix}
    -k_\mathrm{y} \cos(k_\mathrm{x} x) \sin(k_\mathrm{y} y) \\
    k_\mathrm{x} \sin(k_\mathrm{x} x) \cos(k_\mathrm{y} y) \\
    0
    \end{bmatrix} e^{ik_\mathrm{z} z}

.. math::
    \mathbf{H} =  \begin{bmatrix}
    -i\frac{k_\mathrm{z} k_\mathrm{x}}{k_c^2} \sin(k_\mathrm{x} x) \cos(k_\mathrm{y} y) \\
    -i\frac{k_\mathrm{z} k_\mathrm{y}}{k_c^2} \cos(k_\mathrm{x} x) \sin(k_\mathrm{y} y) \\
    \cos(k_\mathrm{x} x)\cos(k_\mathrm{y} y)
    \end{bmatrix} e^{ik_\mathrm{z} z}
    

> The solution is specified in the ``Analytical Solution`` subsection of the parameter file: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The solution is specified in the ``analytical solution`` subsection of the parameter file: 
```

    end 

.. note::
    The parameters defined here are only used to calculate the error, they are not taken into account in the simulation.

Mesh Adaptation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this tutorial, we want to perform a convergence analysis. Therefore, the mesh needs to be successively refined uniformly across the domain. This is achieved with the subsection ``mesh adaptation``, by setting the ``type`` to be ``uniform``:

.. code-block:: text

    subsection mesh adaptation
      set type = uniform
    end

and by changing the number ``n`` of mesh adaptations in the subsection ``simulation control``:

.. code-block:: text

    subsection simulation control
        set method            = steady
        set output frequency  = 1
        set output path       = ./degree_1/
        set number mesh adapt = n
    end

Note that a folder is automatically created when the simulation is run. If you try a new order :math:`m`, you can change the name of the path in the ``simulation control`` subsection: ``set output path = ./degree_m/``

.. Note:: 
    A typical computer with 12 cores and 64 Gb of RAM can compute up to 3 mesh adaptations, after that the systems becomes too heavy in memory. 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you try a new order :math:`m`, you can change the name of the path with ``set output path = ./degree_m/``.

.. Note::
   - The output folder specified with ``output path`` is automatically created when the simulation is run if it does not already exist.
   - A typical computer with 12 cores and 64 Gb of RAM can compute up to 3 mesh adaptations, after that the systems becomes too heavy in memory. 

```

Degree of the FEM Solver
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can also change the degree of the polynomes used in the Finite Element Method in subsection `FEM`: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also change the degree of the polynomials used in the Finite Element Method (FEM) in subsection ``FEM``: 
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection FEM
        set electromagnetics trial degree = 1
        set electromagnetics test degree  = 2
    end

.. caution::
    The time-harmonic Maxwell solver requires the degree of the test space to always be greater than the degree of the trial space. Consequently, if the trial space degree is changed, the test degree also needs to be adjusted. 

Physical Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can also change the electromagnetic properties of the medium at the subsection ``phytsical properties``. Here are the default settings for air or void:

.. code-block:: text
    
    subsection physical properties
        set number of fluids = 1
        subsection fluid 0
            set electric conductivity model = constant

>             et electric conductivity       = 0.

Reviewer: It's not well aligned here :)
```suggestion
            et electric conductivity        = 0.
```

            set electric permittivity model     = constant
            set electric permittivity real part = 1.
            set electric permittivity imag part = 0.

            set magnetic permeability model     = constant
            set magnetic permeability real part = 1.
            set magnetic permeability imag part = 0.
        end
    end

.. Note::
    Adding an imaginary part to the permeability and the permittivity makes the medium dissipative. 
    
Here is a comparison of the result in a dissipative medium (left) with :math:`\Im(\mu_\mathrm{r})=0.06 \ , \ \Im(\varepsilon_\mathrm{eff,r})=0.06` and a non-dissipative one (right):

    .. image:: images/Dissipation.png
        :alt: TE10V2
        :align: center
        :name: TE10V2

>         :width: 500

Reviewer: The alignment is a bit off here also
```suggestion

.. image:: images/Dissipation.png
    :alt: TE10V2
    :align: center
    :name: TE10V2
    :width: 500
```

----------------------
Running The Simulation
----------------------

Call ``lethe-fluid`` by invoking:

.. code-block:: text

    mpirun -np 10 lethe-fluid waveguide.prm

to run the simulation using ten CPU cores.

.. warning:: 
    Make sure to compile lethe in `Release` mode and 
    run in parallel using mpirun. With three mesh adaptations, this simulation takes
    :math:`\sim \,6` minutes on :math:`10` processes. 

.. tip::

   Alternatively, the application ``lethe-fluid-matrix-free`` can be used to run the simulation (``mpirun -np 10 lethe-fluid-matrix-free waveguide.prm``). For three mesh adaptation, it takes :math:`\sim \, 4` minutes on :math:`10` processes.

----------------------
Results and Discussion
----------------------

> The following figure shows the :math:`\Re(\mathbf{H}_\mathrm{z})` field of 4 increasing mesh adaptations with the default settings of the waveguid.prm file. As expected, with decreasing element size, we capture more and more the oscillating behavior of the solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following figure shows the :math:`\Re(\mathbf{H}_\mathrm{z})` field of 4 increasing mesh adaptations (``set number mesh adapt = 4``) with the default settings of the waveguide.prm file. As expected, with decreasing element size, we capture more and more the oscillating behavior of the solution.
```

The :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` modes can be specified in the subsection `waveguide mode` of the parameter file. Here we used the following:

.. code-block:: text

    subsection time harmonic maxwell
        set electromagnetic frequency  = 2.45e9
        set number of waveguide inlets = 1

        subsection waveguide inlet 0
            set port boundary id = 4

            set corner 0 = 0,0,0
            set corner 1 = 0.25,0,0
            set corner 2 = 0, 0.25, 0.
            set corner 3 = 0.25, 0.25, 0.

            subsection waveguide mode
                set mode type    = TE
                set mode order m = 1
                set mode order n = 0
            end
        end
    end

To apply a transverse magnetic mode, simply modify the ``mode type`` with “TM”.

> The frequency of the inlet is originally set to :math:`f = \mathrm{2.45}\, \mathrm{GHz}` because it is the nominal frequency of microwave reactors in the industry. 

Reviewer 2: Can you refer to the prm file subsection that you added above when mentioning the frequency. Also, add the description and reason behind the other parameters in the section (i.e., number of waveguide inlet, the port  boundary and the set corner 1,2,3,4 ).

The :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` modes can be specified in the subsection `waveguide mode` of the parameter file. Here we used the following:

.. code-block:: text

    subsection time harmonic maxwell
        set electromagnetic frequency  = 2.45e9
        set number of waveguide inlets = 1

        subsection waveguide inlet 0
            set port boundary id = 4

            set corner 0 = 0,0,0
            set corner 1 = 0.25,0,0
            set corner 2 = 0, 0.25, 0.
            set corner 3 = 0.25, 0.25, 0.

            subsection waveguide mode
                set mode type    = TE
                set mode order m = 1
                set mode order n = 0
            end
        end
    end

To apply a transverse magnetic mode, simply modify the ``mode type`` with “TM”.

The frequency of the inlet is originally set to :math:`f = \mathrm{2.45}\, \mathrm{GHz}` because it is the nominal frequency of microwave reactors in the industry. You can modify the ``electromagnetic frequency`` to change this value.

> You can also change the ``number of waveguide inlets``, the inlet is initially set to ``por boundary``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here, since we are in a waveguide, we set the ``number of waveguide inlets`` to 1. This inlet must be assigned a ``port boundary id`` so that the solver knows on which boundary to apply the inlet condition (here, the boundary ID is 4).
```

> To change the geometry of the system. you can modify the position of the points ``corner 0``, ``corner 1``, ``corner 2`` and ``corner 3``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The solver also needs to know the corner points where the inlet boundary is applied so that it can map the ``mode type`` to the user-expected direction and determine the dimensions of the mesh for a priori computation. The positions of the points ``corner 0``, ``corner 1``, ``corner 2``, and ``corner 3`` must therefore match the coordinates of the rectangular waveguide inlet. In addition, the segment from ``corner 0`` to ``corner 1`` defines the first transverse vector (i.e., it is associated with the ``mode order m``), while the segment from ``corner 0`` to ``corner 2`` defines the second transverse vector (i.e., it is associated with the ``mode order n``).
```

..
    SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2026 The Lethe Authors
    SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 WITH LLVM-exception OR LGPL-2.1-or-later

=========
Waveguide
=========

This example is used to verify the implementation of the electromagnetic solver. It considers the propagation of an electromagnetic (EM) wave in a waveguide, a problem for which an analytical solution is available, thereby allowing us to assess whether the method recovers the expected order of convergence.

--------
Features
--------

- Solvers: ``lethe-fluid`` or ``lethe-fluid-matrix-free``
- Steady-state problem
- Use of discontinuous Petrov-Galerkin (DPG) method

--------------------------
Files Used In This Example
--------------------------

The file mentioned below is located in the example's folder (``examples/multiphysics/waveguide``).

- Base case parameter file (:math:`\mathrm{f=2.45 GHz}` and :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{10}`): ``waveguide.prm``

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
No need for so many empty lines

-----------------------
Description of the Case
-----------------------

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Geometry
~~~~~~~~

The simulated waveguide has a square cross section. It is made of four perfectly conductive lateral walls, an inlet port for the wave’s entry, and an outlet for its exit as shown in the figure below. The wave propagates along the :math:`z`-axis.

.. image:: images/schematic.png
    :alt: schematic
    :align: center
    :name: geometry
    :width: 500

The dimensions chosen here are a width :math:`a = 0.25 \, \mathrm{m}`,  a height :math:`b = 0.25\, \mathrm{m}` and a length :math:`L = 1\, \mathrm{m}`.

Physical Problem
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. note::

>     Lethe time-harmonic solver always solve the set of equations in a dimensionless form; therefore, the same convention will be used in the following mathematical descriptions. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Lethe time-harmonic solver always solves the set of equations in a dimensionless form; therefore, the same convention will be used in the following mathematical descriptions. 
```

> This simulation computes the stationary electromagnetic field in the above waveguide filled with void. We recall that the time-harmonic Maxwell equations in their dimensionless form, as used in this example, are:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This simulation computes the stationary electromagnetic field in the waveguide filled with void. We recall that the time-harmonic Maxwell equations in their dimensionless form, as used in this example, are:
```

We understand that it's the waveguide described before :)

.. math::
    \begin{align*}
    \tag{Faraday's law} \nabla \times \mathbf{E} - i\omega \mu_{\mathrm{r}}\mathbf{H} &= 0 \\
    \tag{Ampère-Maxwell's law} \nabla \times \mathbf{H} + i \omega \varepsilon_{\mathrm{r,eff}} \mathbf{E} &= \mathbf{J} 
    \end{align*}

with the parameters of the problem:

- Dielectric characteristics of the medium : :math:`\mu_{\mathrm{r}}` the relative permeability and :math:`\varepsilon_{\mathrm{r,eff}}` the effective relative permittivity. This characteristic is noted "effective" because it takes into account the electric conductivity.   

> - Excitation: :math:`\mathbf{J}` the current density and :math:`\omega = \frac{L2\pi f}{c}` the angular frequency of the electromagnetic wave normalized by the speed of light in the void :math:`c` .

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Excitation: :math:`\mathbf{J}` the current density and :math:`\omega = \frac{L2\pi f}{c}` the angular frequency of the electromagnetic wave normalized by the speed of light in the void :math:`c`.
```

> When solving a time-harmonic electromagnetic problem with Lethe, there are 12 unknowns: two for each component of the dimensionless :math:`\mathbf{E}` and :math:`\mathbf{H}` fields (the real and imaginary parts in each of the three spatial directions). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When solving a time-harmonic electromagnetic problem with Lethe, there are 12 unknowns: six for :math:`\mathbf{E}` and :math:`\mathbf{H}` fields (the real and imaginary parts in each of the three spatial directions). 
```

I think phrasing it this way is clearer IMO

> In addition, to describe an electromagnetic wave problem, it is useful to  introduce the following dimensionless wavenumbers to ease notation in the following parts of this example :

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition, to describe an electromagnetic wave problem, it is useful to  introduce the following dimensionless wavenumbers to ease notation in the following parts of this example:
```

No space before : in English

.. note::
    Note that if :math:`k \leq k_\mathrm{c}`, the wave does not propagate because :math:`k_\mathrm{z}^2 \leq 0`. This remark is important for the following part on the frequency and the different modes.

In Lethe, the ``electromagnetics`` solver is enabled within the ``multiphysics`` subsection of the parameter file. We also disable the ``fluid dynamics`` solver there since it is enabled by default.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection multiphysics
        set fluid dynamics   = false
        set electromagnetics = true
    end

The Different Transverse Modes And The Frequency Modification
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` mode refers to "Transverse electric mode". This means that regardless of the values of :math:`m` and :math:`n`, the :math:`z`-component of :math:`\mathbf{E}` is always zero. Therefore, the pair :math:`(m,n)` refers to the :math:`x`-component of the electric field being excited in the :math:`m`-th mode and the :math:`y`-component of the electric field being excited on the :math:`n`-th mode. 

> The :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` modes can be specified in the subsection `waveguide mode` of the parameter file. Here we used the following :

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` modes can be specified in the subsection `waveguide mode` of the parameter file. Here we used the following:
```

.. image:: images/TE_modes.png
    :alt: TE10
    :align: center
    :name: TE10
    :width: 500

Boundary Conditions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. Attention::
    Although we are not using the fluid solver, note that we cannot remove the ``subsection boundary conditions`` for the fluid boundaries in the parameter file otherwise the simulation fails to execute.

There are three types of boundary conditions in this problem, this explains why the surfaces of the waveguide are sorted in three groups. First, there is the inlet :math:`\Gamma_1`, then the outlet :math:`\Gamma_2` and finally the metal walls :math:`\Gamma_3`.

- Inlet :math:`\Gamma_1`: ``waveguide port`` boundary condition at the inlet of the waveguide to excite the :math:`\mathrm{TE}_{mn}` mode at :math:`z` = 0
- Outlet :math:`\Gamma_2`: ``impedance boundary`` condition tuned to the waveguide impedance to minimize the reflections (the waveguide is theoretically infinite). The dimensionless admittance in such conditions is:

  .. math::

    Y_\mathrm{s} = \frac{1}{Z_\mathrm{s}}=\frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}} = \frac{k_\mathrm{z} c}{2\pi f \mathrm{L} \mu_\mathrm{r}} \approx 0.968987646

  .. caution::

>     Changes in mode will affect this value as mentioned before.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Changes in mode will affect the value of the dimensionless admittance.
```

- Metal walls :math:`\Gamma_3`: ``pec`` (perfect electric conductor) boundary conditions

These translate into the three following equations:

.. math::
    \begin{align*}
    \tag{on $\Gamma_1$} \nabla \times \mathbf{H} + \frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}} \mathbf{n} \times (\mathbf{E} \times \mathbf{n}) &=  \nabla \times \mathbf{H}_{\mathrm{TE}_{mn}} + \frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}} \mathbf{n} \times (\mathbf{E}_{\mathrm{TE}_{mn}} \times \mathbf{n})\\
    \tag{on $\Gamma_2$}\nabla \times \mathbf{H} + \frac{k_\mathrm{z}}{\omega \mu_\mathrm{r}} \mathbf{n} \times (\mathbf{E} \times \mathbf{n}) &= 0 \\
    \tag{on $\Gamma_3$}\mathbf{n} \times \mathbf{E} &= 0
    \end{align*}

>     

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

    -k_\mathrm{y} \cos(k_\mathrm{x} x) \sin(k_\mathrm{y} y) \\
    k_\mathrm{x} \sin(k_\mathrm{x} x) \cos(k_\mathrm{y} y) \\
    0
    \end{bmatrix} e^{ik_\mathrm{z} z}

.. math::
    \mathbf{H} =  \begin{bmatrix}
    -i\frac{k_\mathrm{z} k_\mathrm{x}}{k_c^2} \sin(k_\mathrm{x} x) \cos(k_\mathrm{y} y) \\
    -i\frac{k_\mathrm{z} k_\mathrm{y}}{k_c^2} \cos(k_\mathrm{x} x) \sin(k_\mathrm{y} y) \\
    \cos(k_\mathrm{x} x)\cos(k_\mathrm{y} y)
    \end{bmatrix} e^{ik_\mathrm{z} z}
    

The solution used for the calculation of the convergence rates is specified in the ``analytical solution`` subsection of the parameter file: 

.. code-block:: text 

    subsection analytical solution
        set enable    = true
        set verbosity = verbose
        subsection electromagnetics
            set Function constants  = k = 51.348203, k_x = 12.5663706, k_z = 49.78678822
            set Function expression = 0. ; (-k/k_x)* sin(k_x*x) * sin(k_z*z);  0.;0; (k/k_x)* sin(k_x*x) * cos(k_z*z);   0;  (k_z/k_x)* sin(k_x*x) * sin(k_z*z);    0.;   cos(k_x * x)*cos(k_z*z) ; -(k_z/k_x)* sin(k_x*x) * cos(k_z*z);    0.;  cos(k_x * x) *sin(k_z*z)
        end
    end 

.. note::

>     The parameters defined here are only used to calculate the error, they do not affect the simulation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

I don't think that note is necessary here :)

.. code-block:: text

    subsection mesh adaptation
      set type = uniform
    end

and by changing the number ``n`` of mesh adaptations in the subsection ``simulation control``:

.. code-block:: text

    subsection simulation control
        set method            = steady
        set output frequency  = 1
        set output path       = ./degree_1/
        set number mesh adapt = n
    end

If you try a new order :math:`m`, you can change the name of the path with ``set output path = ./degree_m/``.

.. Note::
   - The output folder specified with ``output path`` is automatically created when the simulation is run if it does not already exist.
   - A typical computer with 12 cores and 64 Gb of RAM can compute up to 3 mesh adaptations, after that the systems becomes too heavy in memory. 

Degree of the FEM Solver
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can also change the degree of the polynomials used in the Finite Element Method (FEM) in subsection ``FEM``: 

.. code-block:: text

    subsection FEM
        set electromagnetics trial degree = 1
        set electromagnetics test degree  = 2
    end

.. caution::

>     The time-harmonic Maxwell solver requires the degree of the test space to always be greater than the degree of the trial space. Consequently, if the trial space degree is changed, the test degree also needs to be adjusted. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The time-harmonic Maxwell solver requires the degree of the test space to always be greater than the degree of the trial space. Consequently, if the trial space degree is increased, the test degree also needs to be increased. 
```
